# WoofCommunity - Project Pitch 🦴🐶🐱🏡


## Presentation Notes 

### ABOUT ME
Hello everyone, my name is Kathleen! 
    My passion for Software Engineering started when I built an e-commerce website for my business. I really enjoy developing projects through code and previously worked freelance as a web developer and full stack web development bootcamp grad. 
    software developer | entrepreneur  

### APP BACKGROUND
Today I'd like to share my app, LULUSPAWS Community. 

An app to allow users to connect & create a Community with Pet Lovers (Dogs & Cats) through personal profile, posts, search bar, map 



##  REVIEW: TECH STACK & FEATURES

- SwiftUI

I wanted to take the challenge of learning databases with ios.

I decided on FireBase, because it allows real sync of data, quicker builds, thorough documentation, and made the Authentication process easier. 

### Firebase Database
- 🎥: Signup - when user signs up 
    - Users will be able to signup, signin and post and this is created, read, and saved through the Firebase Storage & Database using MVVM.
    - I created two view model files to handle Users & Users Post
        - 1. StorageService - to save & access firestore database 
        - 2. AuthViewModel - to create/sign in users to database and save it to Firestorage 
    
#### User Authentication
        - Set up the storageViewModel 
            - in this saveUserProfileInfo function, we allow users to be able to save username, email, and imageData to access to their Profile 
        - then we went to AuthViewModel
                - to make a function to create    
                 Auth.auth().createUser
                     & save user info We also refer to saveUserProfileInfo function from StorageViewModel 
            
            - 2. SignInViewModel
            - 🎥: SignIn 
                - In order to have the user saved to the DB, we needs to create a name for: collection & document
                - I named the collection: users & document after the userId that is autogenerated 
                          -   Firestore.firestore().collection("users).document(userId)
                - User will then be able to sign in if the userId is equal to userId trying to login  Auth.auth().signIn() 


               
### User Profile 
- 🎥: Show the profile, then cut to the new profile with user info
- From there a user will be able to have a profile 
    -  I made a ProfileViewModel 
        - 1. save/edit profile function
            -  they will be able to edit their info based from User model 
        - 2. show posts of user
    
### User Posts
- 🎥: Add a post and show on profile 
- Made a PostViewModel 
- made a Post Model
- then a function to uploadPost 
    - we check to make sure userId is current user
    - then we follow the steps to:
        - add to Firebase.firestorage() db 
        - 1. add to posts collection 
        - 2. documentId 
        - 3. saves to our firebase storage
- Then it should appear on our profile, because I added a loadUserPosts function onAppear to show users post
  
- Search Users  
- MapKit
 
### FEATURES

- sdk image 
            
### CHALLENGES
I wanted to take the challenge of learning databases with ios. I decided on FireBase, because it allows real sync of data, quicker builds, thorough documentation, and made the Authentication process easier.
    
It took a bit to learn the documentation, and implement and learn to fetch all users depending on the document and collection. 


#### Overall, I hope you enjoyed my demo and please feel free to check out the Github repo. 

//  https://fellowship.hackbrightacademy.com/materials/ios/resources/ios-ind-requirements/


// demo presentation notes
// https://fellowship.hackbrightacademy.com/materials/wmt3/lectures/ios-demo-prep/ 
